[MUSIC PLAYING]
ADDY OSMANI: All
right, welcome to TTT.
Today, we're going to talk about
Lighthouse and Lighthouse NCI.
With us today is our
special guest Eric Bidelman.
Eric hacks on Lighthouse.
What is Lighthouse?
Why should we care about it?
ERIC BIDELMAN:
Yeah, so Lighthouse
is a tool that we've been
developing on the Chrome team
for about a year and
a half now, and it's
a tool for web developers
to audit their sites.
It tells you things
about best practices.
It gives you performance scores.
It tells you if your site's
a progressive web app or not.
It kind of lists
off the things you
need to do in order
to make it better.
MATT GAUNT: Yeah, and
you've been working
on this for quite awhile now.
I think it start off
as sort of a Node CLI,
and then there was the Chrome
extension, which kind of
has been like super popular.
But you've been moving
it around since then.
Right?
ERIC BIDELMAN: Yeah, it's
kind of grown up over time.
It started off as
the Node module,
so you can programmatically run
this thing against your site
if you're in Node.
And then we develop
the Chrome extension
because people just really want
to press a button against a URL
and get some
numbers and a score.
And over time, as the open
source project has kind of
grown up-- we've released it
in other places like Dev Tools.
So now in Chrome Stable,
if you open the Dev Tools,
you can basically go
to the new Audits panel
and, voila, instead
of the old school
Audits panel that we had
for many, many moons,
you have the new version,
which includes Lighthouse.
So you can go to a site.
You can run.
You can choose which performance
categories, [INAUDIBLE]
categories you want.
You run it against your site.
Will emulate a mobile device,
throttle down the connection
to make sure your
performance numbers are
realistic to the real
world if somebody's viewing
your site on a mobile device.
And we run a bunch
of stuff, so you'll
see the page reload
a couple of times,
and that's just because we
have to test for things like is
your site working offline.
We want to shut the network
connection off, make
sure you're using a
service worker or your PWA,
run performance audits,
accessibility audits.
And eventually, we'll get
this really nice report that
basically shows you what you're
doing great at-- here we go--
and what you could improve upon.
So Chrome Status is a
good example of PWA.
I spent some time making a PWA.
MATT GAUNT: I was going to say,
who built Chrome Status, Eric?
ERIC BIDELMAN: Yeah,
so there is that.
We have hundreds-- out
of 100 for the PWA score,
and you can see in here
all the different kind
of things we test for.
So there's a lot
of stuff in here
I highly recommend
checking out, diving in.
Really good, interesting
performance section,
some newer metrics like
first meaningful [INAUDIBLE],,
time to interactive,
probably things you guys
have covered extensively
on the show here.
ADDY OSMANI: No, first time
we're ever covering this.
ERIC BIDELMAN: Yeah.
ADDY OSMANI: Ever in history.
ERIC BIDELMAN:
But there's just--
there's new stuff
happening all the time.
We're adding new audits, so
as new best practices emerge
or the requirements for being
a progressive web app change,
we're going to add
that stuff and just
make the whole tool better.
MATT GAUNT: And then [INAUDIBLE]
new web standards kind of land,
you can start seeing people
basically add audits,
and then it's instantly going to
start appearing in Lighthouse,
and it's kind of a nice way of
keeping up to date with newer
web standards.
Right?
ERIC BIDELMAN: Yeah, and
that's one of the goals,
is there's all these best
practices you learn over time,
but some are kind of outdated.
You don't know what's
relevant or not in 2017.
And so we just want to add this
to a tool that's open source.
It's on GitHub, and now it's
built into the browser itself,
so you can use it basically
anywhere you want.
ADDY OSMANI: That's awesome.
I love that it's got those
modern loading metrics going
there, and it's
also got the section
for your critical
network request chains.
Really useful to look at.
So Lighthouse is great for
your local dev workflow,
checking your own performance
on your local machine,
but it's important
to be continuously
testing this stuff out.
Does Lighthouse work in
continuous integration
with things like Travis, and if
so, can we have it now please,
Eric, and how?
ERIC BIDELMAN: Well,
I'm glad you asked that.
Indeed, we can.
Something we showed
at Google I/O
is the ability to basically
just hook up headless Chrome
and Lighthouse to GitHub.
So someone submits a
pull request to you.
You want to know if that
pull request is going
to hurt your performance,
accessibility, best practices,
or if it's going to
make it better or not.
So you can totally do that.
I've actually been experimenting
with that over on GitHub.
You can check it out.
It's
github.com/ebidel/lighthouse-ci.
And basically what this is,
it's just a Docker image
that we've put on Google Cloud.
So it's on App Engine.
It runs Docker, runs
headless Chrome,
and it basically sends off
your GitHub pull requests
as they come into
this Rest endpoint.
It stages and tests
and then gives you
your Lighthouse score.
So that's pretty nice
because you can basically
have this little Lighthouse
following you wherever
you go, and this is an example
of what this tool actually
does.
So it'll report on
your pull request.
It'll comment saying,
hey, this pull request is
going to be 100 of 100 now.
No worries.
You're safe to merge.
MATT GAUNT: So do you
have to stay to your site
and then tell the CI,
this is your role,
I want to run this pull request?
ERIC BIDELMAN: You do.
I'll just show you right here.
It's just Travis.
So you drop in a
Travis YAML file,
and you run this little
script that I created.
And that script,
called runlighthouse,
just handles the details
of commenting on your pull
request, and sending the
pull request to this Docker
image in the cloud.
And then all you do
in your Travis file
is have your usual
install handler, your npm
link, or whatever you have
to do to test your site.
And then in
after_success, the stuff
you mentioned, which
is deploy your site.
We want folks to deploy
their pull request changes
to a staging URL,
because we think
it will give more realistic
performance numbers.
If you run locally
on localhost, and you
don't have things like
SSL, for instance, you
don't have an H2PUSH,
so there's going
to be different performance
characteristics if you don't
send it to a staging server.
But it's basically just drop in.
And you call this little
runlighthouse script,
you give it the URL you
want to test against,
your staging server URL.
And then lightousebot
will do the hard work
of reporting back
the new scores,
commenting on your
pull requests,
and letting you know what's up.
MATT GAUNT: So because it's
running in headless Chrome,
does that affect the
performance scores and stuff,
and is there any way of
basically getting around that,
so it's a bit more realistic?
ERIC BIDELMAN: So
right now actually,
and I'm glad you asked
that, because it's
a real important point.
Inside of this
repo, it's a tool we
have online that people
can just drop into Github,
but it's also a reference
server, and a docker image
that people can run their
own setup if they wanted to.
But I have two different
Docker files here.
One is for headless
Chrome, so test my site
using headless Chrome, and
also using full Chrome, so
non-headless version of Chrome.
And so the CI's actually using
the non-headless one right now,
because there's some bugs
with headless Chrome on--
basically you can't do
throttling and network
emulation in headless right now.
So it's not going
to be entirely--
you're basically going to
get better scores than you'd
expect.
And we want the most
realistic ones possible.
Yeah.
A couple of options, though.
MATT GAUNT: Nice.
So you can use it as
a Chrome extension,
but there's no real need
for that, because you got it
in dev tools now.
Is it any other way you can
use it after the CI as well?
Nudge nudge, WebPagetest?
ERIC BIDELMAN: WebPagetest, yes.
And actually we've integrated.
We've worked with the
folks at WebPagetest
to integrate lighthouse.
So if you're on WebPagetest, you
can pop over to Simple Testing.
Inside of here,
you can see there's
a checkbox for Run Lighthouse.
And when you do this, you're
going to get your typical web
page test results, but you'll
also have the lighthouse report
that you saw, that we just
saw in the dev tools, show up.
So you can get all this
information in a single place,
if you're already
using this tool.
ADDY OSMANI: And the benefit
of this versus just running
it locally is you can also
run on a real device, Moto G4,
and get slightly more
realistic performance numbers
off the back of it.
ERIC BIDELMAN: Definitely.
One of the coolest things
about WebPagetest in general
is there's all these
different places
you can test, in a bunch of
different versions of browsers
and devices.
So you get realistic numbers.
ADDY OSMANI: Awesome.
So a plethora of options.
Folks should check it out.
MATT GAUNT: Yep.
I'd just get it in your
CI, so you don't trip up.
That's what I've
done on my site,
but I've been customizing
it like no end.
So I'm glad that--
ERIC BIDELMAN:
It's open sourcing,
you can do whatever you want.
Customize the snot out of it.
ADDY OSMANI: Awesome.
So check out lighthouse,
try it in CI.
Thanks for dropping by, Eric.
ERIC BIDELMAN: Thanks, guys.
Appreciate it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]